Peter J. Yao
e-mail: peterjyao@gmail.com
phone: +41 78 902 71 76
address: 1 Rue François-Joseph Ritter, 68330 Huningue, France

Work Experience

position: Senior Associate Scientist, Large Molecule Drug Product Development
company: Janssen Pharmaceuticals
dates: January 2018 - Present
description: Process development of aseptic fill/finish processes for new product introductions and technical transfers at Schaffhausen facility. Implemented laboratory study workflow to evaluate filtration performance and ensure smooth operation of the critical unit operation in aseptic manufacturing. Worked with internal laboratory team and external vendors to achieve filter validation for multiple programs. Led development laboratory efforts to identify solutions to technical problems in manufacture of a commercial product and create estimated 1M CHF/year in savings when implemented. Collaborated with multifunctional team to identify and implement new process analytical technologies to verify process models and gain new insights during manufacturing.

position: Senior Associate Scientist, Small Molecule Chemical Development
company: Janssen Pharmaceuticals
dates: November 2015 - December 2017
description: Support for late-stage chemical development of small molecule APIs and intermediates. Crystallisation process development and process analytical technologies. Responsible for development, evaluation of polymorph control, and definition of proven acceptable ranges of key crystallisation step in synthetic route for a commercial product. Identified crystallisation conditions to deliver a streamlined process without an intermediate isolation step of a highly potent API. Investigated reaction mechanism of a critical alkylation reaction using process analytical technologies and automatic sampling to aid in process design and documentation for health authorities. Led the study of an enantiomeric resolution by crystallisation to establish fundamental system properties and identify key crystal forms.

position: Research Scientist
company: Bristol-Myers Squibb
dates: January 2008 - August 2013
description: Support for early-stage chemical development of small molecule APIs and intermediates. Synthetic route evaluation. Enabling syntheses to deliver clinical material. Responsible for development of a process to deliver API for a commercial product with highly specific powder properties suitable for roller compaction and acted as liaison between laboratory development team and pilot plant operations team. Worked with a rapidly organised team to deliver clinical material of a highly potent intermediate for an antibody drug conjugate under aggressive timelines. Collaborated on diverse multi-functional teams to achieve multiple end-to-end objectives across a variety of projects for six development programs.

Education

degree: Master
university: University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
major: Chemistry
dates: August 2004 - December 2007

degree: Bachelor
university: Case Western Reserve University
major: Chemical Engineering
dates: August 2000 - May 2004

Languages

language: English
level: Native

language: French
level: B2

language: German
level: B2

Skills

process modeling, process scale-up, statistical analysis, process analytical technologies (PAT), aseptic fill/finish, sterile filtration, data visualisation, chemical process optimisation, planning and workflows, collaboration with multifunctional teams, documentation, data management, R, python, MATLAB